## Question 1

Why is the volatility of data an issue?

```
Data storage - we might want to store the same field of data for multiple time periods, and with data that constantly changes, this becomes more of an issue, the more comprehensive we want to model this change in data.

Data consistency - On the opposite end, we might only want to grab data once and never update it again. If the source is volatile, this single data point might be completely innacurate to the actual data its representing
```

## Question 2

Sorted files have an advantage that "key order adjacent records will most likely be in the same block". Explain why this is the case and then what advantage this yields.

```
Data is written to drives sequentially. This means that one record is added after another in the order of the sorting key, and as a result, adjacent records get written to the same or nearby blocks. 

This allows for efficient and reduced disc I/O. By keeping adjacent records in similar or nearby blocks, for example all the records from key value 1-10, then we only need to read that 1 block to get all of those values. 
```

## Question 3 

A clustering index can use separate blocks for each cluster value, to improve performance for both the insertion and deletion of records. Explain, with diagrams if required, why this works and use a comparison with another index to indicate how it is more efficient.

```
Often, we want to assign unique blocks to clustering indexes. 
```

## Question 4 

You are told that the string CLAIMED was generated by employing a post-order traversal on a binary tree. Draw the tree that generated this text.

## Question 5

You are building a new application that scans published cookbooks to provide a list of all of the ingredients used in each recipe. The app then allows users to search for recipe and cookbook names that use certain ingredients. Explain, in detail, if you would build an index (or multiple indexes) for this application and what kinds of index you would employ. You should describe the behaviour of the data over time and likely impact on the index as part of your solution.

## Question 6

We want to write software to find two 8 character strings that have the same CRC32 hash value. (CRC32 is a hash function that generates a much smaller range of values than MD5 - why am I using this?) 

You may assume that:

- the string is all lower case and only contains the characters from a-z
- both strings are exactly 8 characters long
- you can use the **binascii** python library, and pass strings to it in binary form to calculate the checksum using, for example:
- import binascii  
    binascii.crc32(b"hello-wo")
    

Your program can start from a pre-programmed string and look for matches or do it however you want. You should count how many iterations it took to find the result. Output should look like this. Feel free to display the matching strings if you want to! The ones I've put here are not real output from my program.

Looking for matches  
Running...  
Found two strings that match in 179,654 iterations.  
unearned and leiuwnsh 

Have you found all of the matches?